>> Rodriguez: So let's start
talking about responsive email.
This where things start getting a little
bit more interesting, because again,
there are some gotchas.
There's a couple of different ways to
make responsive emails across all these
different devices.
So there's generally three approaches
to creating mobile email campaigns,
which is increasingly important because
more of our world is going mobile.
We track email opens,
we have a tool called LMS analytics.
And that we anonymize a lot of that
data and put it up on a website called
emailclientmarketshare.com, which tracks
the top ten popular email clients.
And over the years we
have seen the adoption
of mobile just increase drastically.
So, if you're talking five, six years ago,
barely any subscribers were
opening on mobile, something around 10%
of subscribers, something like that.
Now, it's closer to 50%.
So, like half of your subscribers
are opening on mobile devices.
The most popular clients are Gmail
apps and the iOS mail apps.
Super popular,
lots of people using mobile devices.
So we want to make sure that our
emails look good on those devices.
So there's generally three
different ways to do that.
There's this mobile-aware approach
which we'll see what that looks like.
There's not really anything to do code
wise with mobile-aware, which is nice.
So it's easy to implement.
But then you get a little bit more
involved each step down that ladder.
So traditional responsive
is very similar to,
how you would build a responsive website
which we'll see what that looks like.
And then this hybrid or spongy coding
technique, which was developed in
response to Gmail, stripping out those
embedded styles in the head of our email.
So while traditional responsive uses
media queries to drive a lot of that
responsive stuff, when that was stripped
out of the email then none of it worked.
So this different
approach called hybrid or
spongy depending on who you talk to,
was developed to account for that.
So we'll look at that world, we're gonna
mostly focus on traditional responsive
because since Gmail made that update
it's super reliable, works really well.
And almost every email client and
is easier for
people to actually implement because the
hybrid method gets, a lot more advanced.
It's sometimes brittle depending
on what you're trying to do,
if you're doing multiple columns
like four or five columns,
it can be really hard to get that
working reliably across clients.
So we will look at that what
that code looks like, but
at this point since Gmail updated their
rendering engine that traditional
responsive approach is a really good
way to think about responsive email and
make those emails work.
So mobile-aware is cool though in that
you don't have to do anything code related
beyond what you've all ready learned.
So mobile-aware is more about considering
mobile devices, mobile users.
From a design perspective,
when you're first designing your email and
implementing it, so you generally want
to favor simpler layouts, a large text,
large buttons, and anything that
scales down well across email clients.
So a lot of mobile clients
will just simply shrink down,
almost like zooming out,
your email to scale it to fit that width.
They won't do any like reordering or
choreography of your content and
stack things like that.
But if you're not used to building
responsive emails, then you could just
design your email kind of like Trello
does, Trello does awesome emails.
They look beautiful.
They're fun and easy to use.
But, at least recently, for
years now they've been doing it
in this mobile-aware approach.
I think that's a pretty recent email.
They may have updated since I've
been talking, I don't know.
But it's just this simple layout.
It uses large enough text that when
it's scaled down, it's still readable.
The buttons are big enough that
you can tap on them easily,
even when it's shrunken
down on a smaller screen.
But it's not using any code stuff
beyond just fix what containers and
the same kind of table-based
structure that we've seen all ready.
So this is awesome for teams that might
not have the resources to devote to
building and testing responsive or
hybrid email campaigns and
want to use this existing template or
it's good for
legacy templates that you don't have
the time to dig in and update fully.
So mobile-aware's cool,
just keep things big, keep layouts simple,
keep buttons easy to use, and
it'll just naturally scale down on most
mobile devices and work beautifully.
But if we want additional
control over our emails,
then we'll use this traditional
responsive approach.
So this is those same tenants that we've
seen that Ethan Marcotte introduced
however many years ago.
What was this back in 2012, 2013, maybe,
when this responsive design concept
first came into the industry.
So responsive design as a refresher is
all about fluid layouts, fluid images.
And then using media queries to
adjust specific things across
these different device sizes.
So we're doing a couple things
all ready to get halfway there.
So we're using fluid images by default.
We have those responsive by default images
that automatically scale down because
we're using that max width, width, and mid
width approach on all of our image tags.
The fluid layouts were kind of there.
We have a couple of fluid tables, but
then we have those fixed width tables,
which we'll see how to swap those
over to be responsive and fluid.
And then right now we haven't
been using any media queries,
but we'll introduce media queries
to our email to make those more
minute adjustments across
different pieces of our content.